so hello everybody and Good evening everyone. And brother, I have to agree This guy likes the first class and he is Still I refresh once. And he is still going like I am. Classes are running from 11:00 am. End He still like with the same energy. I I did not see him taking a break, meaning salute again. Too Hit Energy ji brother continuously seven what is it going to be 8 hours 8 hours There are going to be 8 hours of continuous teaching. The longest class I've ever had is Let Me Tell you I took it I think two or three years ago It will be and that means I I have taken it frequently for five to six hours. Classes for 5-6 hours, ah, which is my favorite The Longest Class That Was that was 7 [nasal sound] of hours Class, 7 hours class. And brother's Today is the first class. [Laughter] It's about to be 8 hours. This is Phenomenal Phenomenal Huge respect to him. Because [suddenly loud breathing] [sound of deep breathing] I am the same, now you may feel like that I If you have liked it here then praise it. I have been. And it is worth praising. Because I brought it with this thought in mind. This is a thought It was like he is a very hard working Person and again kudos to him. Kudos to Snow. [nasal sound] Again I think someone went from there to here also Is. But again congratulations to him. Because the main thing is that the process Recognizing is very important. you people I also give life lessons to them. Correct Is? I also say that the hard work you You do it very well to recognize it. It is important. appreciate him It is important. What will the result be? It doesn't matter. But at least we It is important to appreciate the process. End Congratulations to him. Congratulations to Prashant Sir. Let us go. So Let's start. Today's lecture of ours ended with Sir telling me Actually, one thing motivated me. I would like to speak. Motivated another one Because now SSC has to take long classes The exams of K are going on for a long time. Those SSCs are not even being scheduled. K exams. It's been a long time. so me I am not getting a chance to take it. Now these Seeing your Prashant Bhaiya, seeing me I am also getting motivation. And I just You won't believe it just yet. They Messaged the team that I want the content. I want a class to be scheduled tomorrow. Well, tomorrow is packed because brother I am not going to stop. Advance completed tomorrow Will get it done. Like you are getting your arithmetic done today Are. I will get the full advance done tomorrow. And in the morning Jindal Sir will conduct current affairs weekly. So It is packed but I will still take class tomorrow. Ok? well. Let's get started. Today Our July current affairs are here. I am going to pay. Ok? And I am a railwayman Let me tell the aspirants that your Something very important on 15th August Announcement is coming for Railway Students For. Ok? So let's start and Rest of the Group D exam will be held from 3rd August. It has begun. So let's see how it goes exam. This is our Lamini Yamal. Ok? From Spain who won the FIFA World Cup Of. You see, the buses are there but the guys Made the team win the World Cup. well then Let's start with the current affairs of the month of July. Affairs with the National News section Ours is from there. So first of all CDSO That Is Central Duck Standard Control Organization Has Granted Marketing Authorization for the Dengue Alt Tetravalent vaccine Qudenga. What is cudenga? Tetravalent of Dengue There is a vaccine. Manufactured by Takeda GMBA Germany. Ok? This is the first dengue This is a vaccine that has been approved in India. In India by CDSO. It is a developed Using recombinant DNA technology. To you You should know whether it is dengue or Then what we call dengue, this is a Is it a viral disease or a disease? Take it or it is a disease. Ok? you are sick Your platelet count falls Are in the body. platelet count, that Drastically reducing begins. And Which family does the virus belong to? So virus that belongs to the family that is Flavivirus. Ok? So this is for you It is important to be careful. And for this Which is a vector, vector means that Which mosquito transmits it? To this virus. This virus moves on its own I will not go. So you should keep this in mind that Your mosquito that is female. Which one? Aedes aegypti. Anopheles which occurs That happens to you in malaria. Joe Ades aegypti is what causes dengue and chikungunya It happens in. Will keep this in mind. Next is Ancient Buddhist Site of Very Very The varied ancient Buddhist site of Sarnath was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List at the 48th session of the World Heritage Committee Held in Buenos Aires Republic of Korea making it India's 45th World Heritage property. India's 45th It has become a World Heritage Property. And from this The first one that was made was Maratha Military Landscape which was number 44. Ok? These The thing you have to take care of. The Inscribe Serializable Property Compares to Component Parts of Chaukhandi Stupa. Ok? which is Archaeological Remains of Sarnath Dham Stupa, Dharmarajika Stupa and Mulang Mulang post cut. It's a very strange name. Correct Is? Mulagand Gakuti Viharaya which is an Ashokan Pillar Apart from its archaeological remains You can see it here. Location You should know. It is Varanasi. and you Should also know that Sarnath is right here One is the Deer Park built by Gautam Buddha. He gave his first sermon. Is No? By what name do we know it? which we know as the Dhamma Chakra Enforcement. That is turning the wheel of law. Dhamma cycle Enforcement. Ok? Turning the Wheel of Law. This was the first sermon given by Gautam Buddha. The one denoted by the wheel He gave it here. So Sarnath Keep in mind that this is the 45th World Heritage Site. UNESCO as a property Has been recognized. Republic of Busan This committee was formed in Korea. It has got recognition there. Meaning the announcement has been made. which Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change Haze designated the Natural History Museum that Mizoram University is in Aizawl which That this is the capital. As a Designated Repository of the Biological Diversity NHM Act of 2002 that is natural History Museum Becomes India's 21 Designated Repository. Ok? The Biological Diversity Act of 2002 Works through three-tier system National Biodiversity Authority State Biodiversity Boards and Biodiversity Management Committees. So We have to take care of the natural resources of Mizoram. NHM is a history museum. This Notified 21 designated Repository. You have to keep this in mind where Our ancient repositories It will be kept here. Ok? So you see this Can. India's Updated National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan 204 to 30 Is the Country's Road Map for Implementing Cunning Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and Halting Biodiversity Loss by 2030. Hulting's This means stopping biodiversity which is harmful to the environment. Diversity is being eroded. Losing Is. When do we celebrate Biodiversity Day? With a long term vision of living In Harmony with Nature by 2050. From 2024 This National Biodiversity up to 30 This is a strategy and action plan. Ok? It was related by the sorry released by the Union Minister of State for Environment Forest and Climate Change at Coop No. 16 at the Convention on Biological Diversity in Black Colombia. Ok? The Plan Sets 23 National Biodiversity Targets. Kamaraj Port Becomes India Second major port with the 18 meter draft Capability Boosting India's Maritime Competitiveness. So you should keep this thing in mind It has to be kept in mind that the Kamaraj Port Where is the location? and you should also know We know it as Enor Port. Are. And this is India's first major It is a corporatized port. That is, the one who In a way, what do private players do? Are? Let's run it. 13 Major Ports in India Are. This is the only one among the 13. out of 13 Three are in Tamil Nadu itself. Enori Joe Kamaraj Which is what we are discussing right now. Chennai and What you don't see down here is This is your Token port that we remember so much. Let's say it broke and fell down. Balance You can see it all here. Kandla which There is a title port. Deendayal Upadhyay Known as port. And whatever your This is your port in That Is Kolkata. Which we call Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Port Know by name. So India's second Major port has been built with a with a what with A meter draft capability boosting India's Maritime Competitiveness. So this The thing you have to keep in mind is its location That also becomes important. Because Tamil Nadu is the state with the most Number of Major Ports in India. Ok? So you have to keep this thing in mind. Ok? Correct Is? Let's come to the next one. And that is the Seventh Meeting of the Governing Body of National Campa was held in Coimbatore under the Chairmanship of Union Minister for Environment Forest and Climate Change. Now what is Campa? Campa Stands For Compensatory Afforestation Fund Fund Management and Planning Authority. So this is campa a Has a stuttery body. any constitutional body Not there. Ok? And its service The governing meeting was held in Coimbatore. And which is good for our environment and forests. Bhupendra Yadav is the Climate Change Minister He has hosted it. Ok? In which there is Misty Scheme which will be implemented in 2023 Mangroves in 2023 Initiative for Shoreline Habitats and Tazable Income is simple. Just remember that you Is. MC Mangrove Mangrove Conservation Had taken it. Was launched in 2023. 3 year For 26 to 2026. But later 3 years It was further extended to 2029 For till. With an additional Rs 500 crore taking The outlay to 600 crores. That means the first 100 It was crores. Just got an additional 500. So This means a total outlay of ₹600 crore here. Went. A New Astha Forest Conservation Scheme Was Approved with an initial corpus of ₹000 Crore for 2026 to 27 to 2030 to 31 to conserve Nearly 15,000 sacred groups 15,000 Sacred Groups to Conserves To do. What are sacred groups? Are? Like if you ever go to North East etc. If you ever go on a trip, to Meghalaya etc. There you will get to see many forests. Will meet. Ok? And there in the forest This means that you cannot take even a single leaf from there. Can go. Many Rudrakshas to you Will be visible. a lot of things to carry You will see the stuff. But you are a leaf Can't take it. It is considered because A bad omen to him. Because if you take Because it is believed that it is a sacred grove It is where the gods reside. Joe Deetz they reside there and if If you steal from there, they will see you. been through the DTs and you get it If there is punishment, it is not allowed. take away from. Ok? So they are Our secret groups. So to them Faith to Conserve Forest Conservation The scheme has been approved involving ₹3000 crore Will be inserted. There is a scheme from 2026, 27 to 30, 31 And 15,000 secret groups are included in this Will be conserved. So, this is something you should keep in mind Have to keep it. Some major decisions that were taken further If there were, then there is no truth, any data or fact in it. Not there. So, you can skip. One You can read the bar. But something like this from here Chances of being asked are low. Ok? Four. Now this is a fact. Four Four Major Wild Life Projects over Dick Declared River Dolphin Project Snow Leopard Fuzz Two Indian Rhinoceros Conservation and a Pan India Plan for Wild Water Buffalo. Now You should know that Joe Snow Leopard is Mainly Joe Yours Hemis National Park is very famous in Ladakh. for Snow Leopard and whatever our Khelo India Winter Games are held in it Our Sheene Shee mascot is who is Nothing but a snow leopard, isn't it? Should Know and Continued Support Was Approved for the conservation of Shanghai in the Manipur. What is Shanghai? Brow Antler Deer. If you remember, in Manipur we have a Let's read about floating lakes and a Also read about National Park. So Which floating lake is yours? whom we It is called Loktak Lake. Ok? This we Known as Loktak Lake and this is it You will see your cable here. Lamjau National Park: Things You Should Know We need Ramsar sites in our Two of our Rams in Montreux record There are wetlands. Ek to keb ye cable lamjo National Park and the second one is of your Rajasthan Keoladeo National Park. So right here You get to see the Shanghai deer and it It is also the state animal of Manipur. Union Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav address No, I remember Bhupendra Jogi. Frequently. Inaugurated the Centre of Excellence on human wildlife conflict at WIS SECON Coimbatore and launched Gave. Ok? and launched the National Human Wildlife Conflict Portal. So this Keep in mind that what we are discussing now Were. Ok? what we were just discussing So under that, this is WII SECOND What has been done to this in Coimbatore now? This thing has been innovated, please keep it in mind Will keep it ok by Bhupendra Yadav ji It is clear and this was the seventh meeting we just had. Have seen the Seventh Meeting of the National Board For Wildlife and Wildlife Day we Sorry, when do we celebrate Biodiversity Day? We do? So on Biodiversity Day we Let's celebrate on 22nd of May. And When do we celebrate Wildlife Day? Are? Why? When do we celebrate the Wildlife Day? Its call is coming. It's okay. So Wild When do you celebrate Life Day? third of Celebrate March. On March 3rd. Ok? Let's come to the next one. Prahlad Joshi Innovated the White Rabbit Technology Based Indian Standard Time Dissemination Demonstration Network at the Regional Reference Standards Laboratory in Bor. Now This is the news Prahlad Joshi, now you know You must have found out. I don't know yet that we have a new Education Minister. after the resignation of Dharmendra Pradhan Yes. Earlier he was the Minister of Consumer Affairs. There used to be affairs. So being in that Department in that Ministry being the Minister of that ministry who Department of Consumer Affairs is in Leeds The One Nation One Time in collaboration with CSIR National Physical Laboratory and ISRO. which is white rapid technology u u What does she use? Precision Time Protocol for Highly Accurate Time Synchronization of the Legal Meteology Rules 2025 Establish Indian Standard Time as India's Sole Mandatory Legal Time Reference To Bolster National Time Severity Governance and Cyber ​​Security. So a little bit of information Should be that Rabbit Technology White What is Rabbit Technology and its benefits Where is it being used? Indian Standard Time Dissemination Demonstration To develop the network It has been used in. Ok? PM Modi flagged off India's first hydrogen Powered passenger train which operates on the Jind Sonipat route in the Haryana. So Haryana I operate this Jind Sonipat route here. India's first hydrogen powered passenger train The train has been run. We give you everything Every month we see something or the other from hydrogen. Let's take it. Green hydrogen from all of this. Is No? So the first hydrogen powered train Haryana has been run on the Sonipat route In. Ministry of Civil Aviation [deep breathing sound] [sudden sharp intake of breath] Approved India's First Private Point In Space Instrument Approach Procedure For helicopter operations at the Undavalli Airports that you should see where will get? In Andhra. Point in Space Procedures Utilize Advanced Satellite based navigation to enable helicopters to Perform Precise Instrument Approaches Eight helicopters making conventional landings Infrastructures. Ok? So you have to keep in mind where to launch it. Where is Undanvali Heliport located? in Andhra Pradesh there okay so this is a little I have to keep this in mind, okay, okay, let's go and Who is the Minister of Civil Aviation now? Ram Mohan Naidu is the Minister of Civil A team of researchers has unveiled Five new species of lichen forming Fungi Belonging to the Genus Allographa n Important Indicator of Forest Health and environmental quality because of their Sensitivity to pollution and habitat Changes from the Western Ghats of India. Five new species of lichen forming Fungi. what are lichen forming fungi Are? What are lichens? So lichen Actually there is a symbiotic relationship. Fungus means fungus which is called in Hindi And algae which is called Shail in Hindi Are. The symbiotic relationship between these two There is a relationship. with all the fungus algae Do not build relationships. make something So they are called like forming algae. Fungi speak. Ok? So these are allographs that belong to phylum that belong to genus I belong. Ok? So these now identified as a Forest health is an important indicator Of. I have also taught you that lichen These are your natural indicators. They act as such. How? Natural They act as indicators that tell us Tell us about climate change and so on. Are. Why? because they are responsive to The changes in the pH level. which is our litmus test Paper is made from lichen only. Ok? That purple dye is dye And it belongs to Thallophytaphylum. So you should know a little about this thing. Ok? Done. Now the five new species here You don't need to know their names. Is. Allographa karke allographa nayake hai. Ok? Named after Sanjeev Nayak It was named after a Kerala state. Allographa is Keralaness, right? So different names Is. Everything is in the name of allographa. They You don't need to remember the name. Bus There are five new species. Allographa is the genus. You should know this. Just India is Nearing completion of the Mumbai Ahmedabad High Speed ​​Rail Masher. Its First Bullet Train Corridor Which Will Set a New Standard for high-speed rail with a speed up to 350 km per hour are significantly faster than 180 kmph design speed of Vande Bharat Trance Okay, so we're going to complete this. Marshall is okay that is Mumbai Ahmedabad High Speed ​​Rail First Bullet Train Corridor Hoga ok with a design up to 350 km But it is significantly faster than 180 kmph R Design Speed ​​of Vande Bharat. So Vande India has 180. You can see from it Approx. two times. Isn't it? It Belongs and it is being developed using The Japanese Shinkansen technology It is being developed using it. First The section which will connect Surat From Bilmora which is in Gujarat itself. Correct Is? Which will open on 15th August 2027 next The year end will be completely complete It will become operational by 2029. Ok? Ok? You can see this is about 508 Km There will be a corridor which is written here Not there. Ok? This entire corridor will be Its approximate length will be 508 km. of Will happen. Ok? Well, you can see Seven high-speed rail corridors are also being developed. Will be done. Covering nearly 4000 km. Have been identified for future Development. So for future development Developed seven high-speed rail corridors Will go. Delhi to Varanasi, Varanasi, Patna, Siliguri. Chennai, Bengaluru, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune and Pune, Hyderabad. Ok? What has India hosted? Now You should know what BRICS is, BRICS Summit India is going to host it this year. Ok? So the different summits that take place You will have all those in India. BRICS Women Working Group meeting in Kochi happened in. Third BRICS Transport The ministerial meeting took place in Nagpur. Now remember Put it like this that the Ministry of our road Transport and Highways. Who is it? Who Is? Where is ethanol uncle Gadkari from? From Nashik in Maharashtra. Ok? So Nashik Nagpur is nearby. Ok? so that's why Remember to do this. Ok? Due 2026 BRICS Labour and Employment Ministry The meeting took place in Hyderabad. 16th BRICS Health Ministry meeting was held in Chandigarh. This is how you remember Chandigarh. Environment It is very good. Ok? People of Chandigarh They are healthy. Like your Buddha. I am from Chandigarh. So like Kamal Sir, right? So Since you are from Chandigarh, you are quite healthy. This Remember it this way. BRICS heads off Where did the anti-drug agencies meeting take place? In Guwahati. BRICS meeting on Traditional Complimentary End Integrative Medicine. this in Chandigarh It has happened to you too. Ok? People who are healthy Yes, those who are healthy, why are they healthy? Are? Because the medicine is taking time That's why he is healthy on time. remember like this Please Keep. IIT Tirupati Hosted 2026 BRICS Working Group Meeting on Jio Special In technology. Who hosted? IIT Tirupati. Many ITs have opened. No, and you should know that It's BRICS, right? So in BRICS right now It is not just five countries. Firstly Brazil, Russia, India and China used to be Were. When South Africa 2010 was formed in 2009 I had joined. But now you know That apart from these, other countries have also joined Are. As Egypt joins, Ethiopia is added. Ok? Indonesia has joined, Iran has joined Is. Ok? And your ah UAE is added. So how many countries do you have now? It is in it. Ok? So you know this thing Should be. Ok? Ok? and Indonesia He is the latest one to join it. Union Minister for Labour and Employment Inaugurated the 15th BRICS Trade Union Forum Summit in Hyderabad. So we just saw Where did the labour incident take place? Labor and Your Employment Meet in Hyderabad Hui. So you can relate it to that. India hosted the Third BRICS Ministerial Meeting on Disaster Risk Reduction. BRICS Joint Statement Adopted to Advance Global Disaster Resilience. Ok? Third BRICS Ministerial Meeting on Disaster Risk Reduction. India has Host Curry. Obviously all the BRICS The meeting is being hosted by India itself. India Host BRICS Network University Conference and the International Governing Board Meeting Strengthening the Bricks Higher Education Corporation. Is there anything to remember Going to do? Not going to remember anything at all No, because we already know that. BRICS is being held in India. The Ministry of Cooperation You know that the new A ministry was created. Ok? So he Celebrated its Fifth Foundation Day Ministry of Cooperation and its Who is the minister? You know who Ministry of Home Affairs is your fat Brother. Ok? Mota Bhai is leading Moha To the Ministry of Home Affairs. India taxi you know ministry of This is an initiative of the corporation which is a recent It has been run as a pilot project in Generally in Delhi NCR and Gujarat Two come with in Maharashtra and Rajasthan Compete with Ola, Uber and Rapido This will happen, this is the government's taxi. Ok? This Cooperate The Cooperative Ride Healing platform ah follows a faced national. Roll out plan to reach out to 500 cities. About It will reach out to 500 cities. The Ministry of Steel Granted Mini Ratna Category One status to MECON Limited to which Ministry of Steel has Mini Ratna MECON has been given Category One status Limited, you have to keep this thing in mind now This which [deep breathing sound] [sudden sharp intake of breath] It is Mecon Limited, that is not important to him. It is important for us that I asked who gets so much Category One Who gets category two, I am not I am saying that it is too much to ask. There are more chances but still I will tell you I'll give you this, you just have to take care of us. Who Ltd. Who gave who? Ministry Of steel. Ok? And whom else? Macon To Ltd. So the central public sector Enterprise must have made profits Continuously for the last three years. It has made profits continuously for the last three years. Booked must have a positive net worth and should have earned a pre-tax profit of At least 30 crores in one of the three years. And for category two, that enterprise must Have made profits continuously for the Last Three Years and Have a Positive Net worth. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs That is thick launch tribex a first of Its Kind Digital Learning Platform Dedicated to the tribal ah to tribal Arts Culture Traditional Knowledge and Skills Development So this has been launched by Tribex. Obviously Ministry of Tribal Affairs He will do it. Who else is the Union Minister now? For Tribal Affairs? He is Mr. Joyal Oram Jul Oram Hai Tribal in Current Minister. Ok? So you should pay attention to this thing Have to keep it. The Union Cabinet Approved by an Additional Government of India Investment commitment of ₹30,000 crore in The National Investment and Infrastructure Fund NIF to Accelerate Infrastructure Investment. So that's it It is to be noted that the Union Cabinet ₹30,000 crore commitment in NIF Investment commitment has just been made. So this You have to remember a little bit well. Ok? Ok. Let us move forward. Researchers from India and Sri Lanka have discovered three New Rare Species of Jumping Spiders. So what are the three new species that are here right now? Have they been done? Jumping has been discovered Of spiders. Brahmagiri has got two From the Hills and Silent Valley. Brahmagiri Hills you can see in Wayanad, Kerala Will meet. And you know about Silent Valley too? Silent Valley National Park if you remember Where it is? Palakkad. You will also find this in Kerala Will be seen. Ok? So, with the third Found in the mountain forests of Sri Lanka. You will see the third one in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka reminded me that Sri Lanka has Won the first gold medal. in javelin throw If we talk about the Commonwealth, which is going to be held in 2026, Neeraj Chopra won silver and What is that name? Yashveer Singh won the Bronze Medal He won in that, right? So Ramesh from Sri Lanka His name is Ramesh. So he Won the gold medal. Ok? Arshad Nadeem who They were from Pakistan but they got nothing. India got two medals each and just a while ago This is the news. Today's news is that India won two gold medals each in boxing. Have gone. Do you know India in boxing? Has received double gold medals. two gold Medals have been received. One is Preeti Pawar and Second by Jasmine Lamboria. as if yesterday Us This is Judo. So in Judo you know Back to back, give us one identity gota and the second I think Harsh Singh Gujral The name is complete. So he took up judo Both the people got the medal and even today Our two females gave us two I think Females gave us more gold medals This time as compared to males. and that Is Again a Very Good Thing. Yes Yes in Judo We also won two gold medals yesterday. and the first Till date we have not used common gold but gold. Did not win a medal. and simultaneously the same Two gold medals won within minutes of each other's debut For that, in judo. New Delhi Hosted And Asmita De's story is also quite It is inspiring. New Delhi hosted the Fifth Beamstock National Security Advisors Meeting. Beamstuck You Should Know That Established It happened in 1997. Head Quarters R Located in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Beamstock Key if we talk and you should also know that There is SAARC, SAARC was formed in Dhaka. In Bangladesh. But its headquarters In Kathmandu Nepal. So the national There are security advisors, they all came. of Beamstock Countries. And we know you Who is it? Ok? are the shortest in height But the work is the toughest. Isn't it? of India What do you keep saying to them? Why? What Is it called India's? So Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multisectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation is its full form. Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Nepal and Bhutan. Instead, we NB let's do it. Nepal and Bhutan. These What are they? Its member countries are: you should No it. And he is called the James Bond of India. Isn't it? The government has introduced the Index of Services Production ISP New Economic Indicator to Capture the Performance of the Services Sector. So The Government of India has established a new index lch kiya that is index of Service production. The Base Year of ISP Has been selected as 2425. ISP Covers Mainly the formal sector. Ah Formal Service Sector not the informal sector. This formal Covers the service sector and not Take care of the informal sector. Index of Service Production. IIP which is Index of Industrial Production Its So what is the background of New Base Year? You are not getting any noise, right? So, new bass. What has happened to this year, the IIP There is GDP and your WPI for all these has become 2023-24 Is. Ok? And what does your si ah say? Are? CPI or Consumer Price Index If this is your 2024 then you should know this. You need it. Ok? N Cash Launch Indias First UPI Integrated Meal Card for Corporate Employees Enabling Allowance Pending by any QR merchant. So that's it Just keep in mind that N Cash is India's first UPI integrated meal The card has been made. Mile card. Ok? Ok? So its name is N Cash. And We This means the same as the tax-free meal offer. Does. That's all. Ok? Up to ₹200 If you take a meal, there is no tax. It will take place in that. Tax means GST etc. It won't work. Isn't it? The Second Bharat Green Hydrogen Summit Took Place at the Fikki Federation House in New Delhi. So seconds India Green Hydrogen Summit is held here Pay. And What was the theme? The theme was positioning India as A Global Hydrogen Hub. Ok. Ok. National Payments Corporation of India that is NPCI partnered with the HSBC India and JPMorgan Payments to enable real Time Foreign Exchange Conversion and Settlement Not that merchant, just be careful and watch Take NPCI and HSBC in Hong Kong. Your Shanghai bank is fine, isn't it? HSBC has done this simply by collaborating I have launched yours, okay, real time. Foreign Exchange Conversion and Settlement Bus Much of the truth is not important. [sound of deep breathing] Ok. The Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Latch The Samagra Shishu Bal Health programs. Ok? What is this? It is a unified national program that Aims to provide a seamless continuum of a Home and Community Based Care for Everyone Child from birth to 36 months of age. Birth From 12 to 36 months of age seamless continuum that is of home and Community-based care provides this. The The ministry also has Unified Health Interface and Interoperable Digital Network Under the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission as of July 10, 2026 This mission has been created more 93.945 Ayushman Bharat Health Account Abha which we They say that Abha ID was created by him. Are. Ok? Is it clear? So from birth to 3 years old Labor for children Infant Child Health The program has been launched. This is Importent. Ok? Let us go. Shake hands, friend. India launched a weekly. The Worlds First The World's First Once Weekly Basel Insulin. Ok? So Abhikali was launched. Has gone. Right now there is the Weekly Flex Touch Pen. Correct Is? What is this? This is a flex touch pen. Well, this is type one and type two diabetes. What happens to you? Why? Type One Type What is the difference between diabetes and diabetes? Type This one does not produce insulin at all. Doesn't let me make it. Ok? And this in it Insulin is produced but the body She registers. Ok? This response Doesn't do it. So, this is the difference between the types In type one and type two diabetes. So, of the same A Weekly has been launched here for this. The World's First Weekly Insulin That Freeze Type 2 Diabetes From Daily Injection. You will no longer need daily injections. Have to take it. Ok? Once Weekly Basil You just have to take insulin. No multiple doses You will have to take a lot. just once Take it once a week. Ok? every day and every day You don't have to take injections every day. Ok? Let us go Next is The IT Kanpur Announce That It Will Establish Centre of Excellence on Green Hydrogen. So IT Kanpur which is green A Centre of Excellence for Hydrogen Will make. That's it. Ok? and its name What will happen? Name the Centre of Excellence on Innovative and Integrated Ecosystem for Green Hydrogen and Ecogen. Ecogen Its Will be the name. Take care. IIT Kanpur. And This is your Centre of Excellence on Green There will be hydrogen. India achieved a major Milestone at the 49th Session of the Codex Alimentarius Commission Cac 49 Held In Geneva, Switzerland with the adoption of three Global Codex Standards for Large Cardamom Coriander and Vanilla ok what are the codex standards If there is a Codex Alimentarius Commission Develops Global Food Safety and Quality What it does is develop the standard This cake is jointly administered by Food This is your FAO, Food and Agriculture. Organization and the World Health There is an organization. Both this and this Established jointly which food safety What does it do to end quality standards? Is? Monitors, regulates. So, He is the one who gave the codex standards here. Are. Large cardamom Yes, coriander which is your coriander and To vanilla. Ok? So, keep this thing in mind Is. These three were included in the 49th Session of the Codex. Found it. Now comes the state news. Pay. So, are you all ready? Quick Tell me guys. Do you know? Yes sir Sugarcane juice big glass ₹20 petrol pump came over Are Sir I want to prepare for NTPC graduate i pass 12 this year can i buy Your Recorded Combo Batch and Weight for Upcoming batches ah i would advise shishupal Yes, I just want to wait for the 15th of August because Railway announcements on August 15th It may be there but it is fine on our railway channel. Just wait till 15th. ok now coming on to this Balod District in State News. Balod District in Chhattisgarh has emerged as a strong community leader Water Conservation Model Under Water Conservation Water Bhagidari 2.0 Giving Fresh Momentum to the Catch the Rain Movement Movement. Ok? So this Have a Strong Country Lead Water Conservation Under the model, this came out as water conservation water Who is included in the partnership? Jo Balod District He is in Chhattisgarh. Ok? of this scheme If we talk about it or we talk about it Water Conservation Water Partnership This will be implemented in Surat by 2024. It was launched from. From April 1, 2024 To implement it by 31 May 2025 1.0 Surpasses Its Target of Constructing at least 10 lakh grounds Water Recharge Structures. That is why these Water conservation is developed goes. So that ground water recharge It is possible. Ok? Ok? Otherwise, there will be surface run-off. Water is used and ground water is recharged It cannot happen. To Balot District Chhattisgarh is a strong state As a community led water conservation model But it is being presented. Uttarakhand has become the sixth state. Yes It has become the sixth state which has Ah After Achieving the Prescribed Adult Literacy Benchmarks under the National Education policy which is our tertiary education policy 2020 and the Glee Which Is Understanding of Life Long Learning for All in Society New India Literacy Programme Uttarakhand becomes the fully literate state Sixth Fully Literate First Fully Literate Tell me which one was it, the first one was your Kerala Vaz Historically Recognized as Indias First fully literate state in 1991. Ok? So you should keep this thing in mind Is. So, Uttarakhand has become your sixth. Ok? Here the benchmark actual is 90% I have to achieve literacy. Correct Is? Maharashtra has become the first state In India to Net the Maharashtra Women Farmers Empowerment Act 2026 which officially recognizes women as Independent Farmers. Ok? So Maharashtra has become the first state to Who has activated Maharashtra Women Farmers Empowerment Act which officially Recognizes women as independent farmers Recognizes them as. Correct Is? You have to keep this thing in mind. Maharashtra announces India's First Proposed AI Enabled Bird Conservation Project at Thane Greek Filming Century. Flamingos look very beautiful Are. Ok? I mean, this is for you to see See you mainly in Maharashtra. So Which in Maharashtra Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary is there. Ok? India has proposed AI Enabled Bird Conservation Project. Ok? Let's move on. India Commission its First Ever Geothermal Wells in Puga Valley Ladakh. First Geothermal Wells. you know Geothermal means from the interior of the Earth Heat is released. Do you know this thing? Meaning Heat escapes from the interior. Why Does it come out? Because what we mean has layers such as crust, mantle End Cor. So whatever you have here This means that there is asthenosphere in the mantle. The mantle has an upper solid part. to see the asthenosphere just below it It is available. from where magma or lava comes out Comes. So wherever it comes from, If there is water somewhere near it, then there is a lot of it. It will get hot. It will get very hot. So that As a form of energy is used. So like there is Puga Valley in Ladakh. As You will get to see Manikaran. have you ever Have you heard about Manikaran? So Manikaran Where are you at? In Himachal Pradesh. So All these are huge sources of geothermal energy. There are sources in India. So right here What happened to your geothermal bill? Commissioned. Marking a Critical Step Toward Establishing the Nations First One Megawatt Geothermal Power project. Union Culture and Tourism Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat inaugurated India's First of Its Kind Space Exploration Gallery. Where? Bhopal MP In. This is your first space. Inaugurated the Exploration Gallery Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Cultural Tourism He is a minister. Innogate your fat brother Kia first fuzz of museum of world in Kolkata, West Bengal. Delhi Government Loch to New to New Heritage Conservation Schemes are monuments are pride Initiative. Ok? The Delhi Government Launched under Monument R Pride Initiative. What kind of schemes are these? So there's the Monument Friends program and There is a financial assistance grant. According to this What is it that whatever your Whatever these private companies are, these She is working there, what should she do? Is? One way to adopt them is For the preservation of monuments and their Have to work. Do you understand? The government also Work is also being outsourced using free funds. Isn't it? [nasal sound] Son If you want to live here, you will have to do it. Ok? So you should know that whoever is ASI Monuments that come under rejection Launched under Friends Programs Is. Can be any NGO, PSU It can also be a private company. Is. So they will be given 5 years or 5 years So you adopt him. Ok? any Further financial assistance to the monument Will be given. Institutions that will be eligible Up to ₹2 crore Up to ₹ crore Financial grant will be given. Meaning Borjuli Wetland in Assam has been notified As a Biodiversity Heritage Site for the Conservation of wild rice Oryza ruf Pagon whose name is. So there is Borjaili Wetland which In Assam it has been notified as a Biodiversity Heritage Site. Ok? Sirsa Kinnow Have you eaten Kinnow? oranges Looks like a but plays big tittily Is. It received a GI tag becoming Haryana has become the first fruit to be given the GI tag. found. This is from Sirsa. Sirsa which is in Haryana I buy Kinnow from 200 years old Jodhpur It's clogs, right? Has earned GI tag Boosting the Identity of Rajasthan Rinode Leather Craft. Ok? Take care of your socks. Slippers. Ok? Uttarakhand Government has Inaugurated the State's first dedicated Geographical Indication Product. GI Products Gallery at the Forest Training Academy, which is where you can see it. Will I get it? In Haridwar. Ok? of the state First dedicated GI product gallery In Uttarakhand. We have related to Uttarakhand And what news did you read just now about Uttarakhand Sixth state becomes 100% fully literate State under the glee. Ok? UP LUCKNOW Chief Minister's Teachers Cashless Medical Scheme Chief Minister Education Teacher Teacher Those who are teachers, they will get up to Rs 5 lakh. Coverage will be available here. Ok? annually Family. Ok? To provide free health coverage. Ok? Let us go. I don't know why I feel like drinking Fanta. It has been happening all along. Chhattisgarh becomes the first State in India to adopt a risk based Regulatory Framework for Businesses to Buy Passing the Chhattisgarh ease of doing sorry by Passing the Chhattisgarh Ease of Doing Business Act of 2026. The first state of India to become Is. Ok? who adopted the risk Based Regulatory Framework for Businesses Which has enacted the Chhattisgarh Ease of Doing Business Act passed to. So the first state of India has been formed Chhattisgarh. Risk Based Regulatory Framework adopter. The JNK Government declared leprosy an Notifiable disease with immediate effect. Correct Is? Ok? We are laughing at leprosy Also known as disease. you know Is What do we paint? Sir ji Jindal sir's marathon pdf. Good A, I will talk to Jindal sir. Ok. I I think there was some error in the first one. Just look at it once. still engaged What sir? We are still engaged, you have to admit. [nasal sound] I think it will cross 9-10 hours today. said the Jammu and Kashmir Government Declared leprosy or notifiable disease We have seen this. Ok? access to this Also known as disease. And Leprosy you should know that Mycobacterium The bacteria caused by leprae It happens because of. Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia left a five year old Road Map 2025 to 30 Title Mission Golden Spice to Boost Production. Correct Is? Processing and Global Branding of Meghalaya's GI tagged Lakadong turmeric Where is Lakadong Turmeric from? Of Meghalaya. Ok? Ok? So keep this mission in mind. 5 Years Complete Road Under Golden Spice This is the map made by Jyotiraditya Scindia. It is launched here. ₹175 crore mission Golden Spice Lunch to Boost Meghalaya's Legumino Turmeric. Punjab has been connected with 27 Global Destinations Across North America, UK, Europe, Australia with the launch of Air India's Easy Connect. Air India's Easy Connect is launched in hub and spoke model. Ok? Ok? Hub and spoke something like this Operates in the manner at Shri Guru Ramdas Ji International Airport. Ok? 27 Connected to a global destination Punjab has it now. Ok? Punjab people are Even far away - Canada, US, Australia A lot of people are going there these days. The MP Legislative Assembly passes the Uniform Civil Code UCC Making It The Fourth State In India to adopt a common legal framework For personal laws. Fourth state to become UCC The one who adopts. Which was the first? just Tell me. Which was the second one? Which was the third one? And which was the fourth one? tell me fast. No So whatever happened, you got beaten. Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Assam and now the fourth one has become ours MP. Ok? MP Declares 2027 as the Year of youth. Wow Mohan Yadav ji. Ok. Property Property Thief. Why? My Youth My pride. Conclave 2027 has been declared the Year of Youth. Has gone. From The Tripura Government Tripura It is he who gave you your identity and your tomorrow. Won gold medal for India. So the Tripura Government has made the singing of The full version of the national song Vande Mataram Followed by the National Anthem Jana Gana Mana compulsory in all schools across the state during Daily morning assemblies. So Daily Morning It was made compulsory in assemblies. that Vande Mataram will be sung first and then Later Jana Gana Mana will be sung. Ok? Rajasthan becomes the first Indian state to Sign the Framework for Action Advance Clean Energy Driven Sustainable Development with the International Solar Alliance. So become the first state Gaya Rajasthan who signed Framework for Action on Advanced Clean Energy with regard to the International Solar Alliance. Oho Supreme Court has given Rs 1500 crore to Kukrel Night Safari Project approved Which will be built in Lucknow. Ok? and to do so This is India's first urban night safari. It will become the world's fifth after Singapore, Thailand, China, Indonesia. Accept I will have to, I will have to accept it. Ok? UP also I am moving ahead now. Ok? one time That was when both UP and Bihar were backward. Bihar So it remained the same but UP is a little ahead It has increased. Ok? That is a very good Thing. The Supreme Court has declared almost ₹1,500 crore Kukrail is being developed in will be? In Lucknow. You will enjoy it. Now let's see By when will it be developed and ready? but fun Will come. India has approved it's fun friend. I am telling the truth. I mean when I mean a I have been there only once. Last year in 2025 Rajaji National Park in December. I had fun brother. December means in December Had gone. It was very cold. perfect morning time Was. There wasn't much of anyone. Someone showed up Was not there. Meaning such a tiger had never been seen before. The leopard was not seen. If you look like this, it looks normal There were dears etc. But there is a suspense, isn't it? I had so much fun as if it wasn't there. I mean [laughs] I was feeling like a king. tell me the truth Have been. I had a lot of fun. Absolutely and this I want to enjoy it again and again. India Has approved. But money is a burden, friend. India has Approved Its First Utility Scale. 100 Mega Ah that's your 100 megawatt or so Vanadium Red Redox Flow Battery Energy Storage system is for deployment at Khavda Solar Park in the Gujarat OK Gujarat Latch The Cyber ​​Financial Fraud E0 FIR Service is good for financial fraud Where is the EZero FIR service in Gandhinagar? E0 means where there is no such Not the specific police station from where Yes, the police station is there, anywhere is fine. and we say zero FIR, E means ho You are watching this electronically digitally. Brother, you are not looking at a banyan tree. This is in Munger, Bihar. You can see its roots which are 700 years old. The roots penetrated the ground completely Munger is 700 years old, is this right? Age is the oldest accurately dated place in Bihar Specimen using scientific radiocarbon Radiocarbon dating was used to Rather than traditional or historical Brother of records, this Chunnu is here Come on, how many years do you want to make this, brother? I know this is a thousand years old. yes here But this witch comes dancing in the night It has happened. So if anyone goes by it Not there. Are you watching, son? so something like this Not there. Chunnu Munnu was not asked. Here in Pe Actual asked from C1-14 Is. Carbon 14 is what we use. For radio dating. and found out from him Has gone. Can't you see, I'm not that type It looks like a tree. You like this type The tree does not look like a banyan tree in which That she does the ghost dance. enter here She dances at night, just like I am telling you We. Ok? At night we The Ahmedabad AH Municipal Corporation AMC Set a new Guinness World Record by Planting over 3.61 lakh saplings in Just one hour. Ahmedabad in 1 hour The Municipal Corporation planted 3.6 lakh trees. are utilizing the Miyakawi Afforestation Method. [nasal sound] [sound of deep breathing] Okay? There is the Miankawi method, there is the Japanese method. under which fermentation is done In urban areas. And that is a very Also a good thing. Ok? Hum Woh Diyaan Mein to become. So why are witches always white? Does she wear it? I'll have to ask the witch now. Why do you wear white? Ok. So Kerala Latch The Digital Square Education Initiative As part of its 100 Day Action Plan for The Education Sector. So Kerala launched Digital Square Education Initiative. Ok? The film has become Tamil Nadu's first fully Operational Climate Resilient Village. Ok? Tamil Nadu's first fully operational Climate Resilient Village is built under the Tamil Nadu Climate Change Mission. Jharkhand Film Development Corporation Limited Sign an MoU that is Memorandum of Understanding with the Satyajit Rail film and Television Institute to establish the Jharkhand Film and Television Institute in Ranchi. So you have to keep in mind that the Jharkhand's Film Development Corporation is He has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Satyajit Ray Lifetime Televis Institute. Ok? So under this Jharkhand Film and Television The institute will be built in Ranchi. Mister Kakulam district in Andhra Pradesh Will get a full-fledged airport The common citizen of the country flies under the flight If there is a scheme, then under that Sri Kakulam The district which is in Andhra Pradesh A full-fledged airport is also available. Is. Ok. Come on and tell me the rest of the good The Udan scheme is when it was launched and How many outlets are there in it? If you went then keep in mind that the flight The common citizen of the country should fly so that he can We can blow up civilians, it's okay on the road. It was launched in 2016 and launched Meaning, for how long was it done and why? The first flight under this was Na Udan Under this she went from Shimla to Delhi. To you Should know. OK and It was launched in 2016 and is fine. And what do you say right now, 2000 March? The news is from 2026 where the modified The flight was approved. come now They go for international news. On the section. First in international news This is that India and the UK have a comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement that is SETA And the Agreement on Social Security has come Into F. So India UK Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, which is I have come. Recently, Andrew Burnham, who He is the PM of the UK. He assumed This is the office. Ok? new UK Prime Minister Made by Andy Burnham. and PM Modi Got an award again. Indonesia Highest Silan Award of Bun Tang etc. Puranas. This is the Adipurna of the Republic of Indonesia. Who gave it? Prabowo Subian has given it to him. Ok? Where? in Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia Is. Modi ji is watching award paid I will take the award. Ok? The PM announce announce that the Indian Institute of management bore will establish its Campus in Indonesia. and bore his campus Will make it in Indonesia. PM also Visited UNESCO World Heritage Site of Praban Paraman Temple in Yogyakarta Along with the Yoga Indonesian President Prabhava subhiyanto। PM Modi has become the First Indian PM to address the Parliament of Indonesia. So first became the Prime Minister who Address to the Parliament of Indonesia Have done. PM Modi who is India He hosted the Australia Annual Summit. Curry. You know, right now Australia and Modi ji was on a visit to New Zealand. So The third India Australia Annual Summit took place. Hosted by the PM of Australia and Melbourne. Ok? These were the outcomes. What were the outcomes? Main Outcome Joint The declaration came out from the defense and Security Corporation Pay. India Australia Maritime Security Australia India Collaboration Road Map Partnership on Cyber ​​Critical Technology and Technologies and Supply The CSIR &amp; IP Australia in CHESS Have entered into an agreement on access To CSIR Digital Sort Traditional Knowledge Digital Library OK Both Sides Agreed to work towards an early balanced Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement and the Long Term Pending Administrative Arrangement under the Civil The nuclear arrangement was operationalised. Ok? So this thing has to be taken care of a little. It's not that important, but still You have to see it once. PM Modi again Participate in what we were just watching These are the additional details in it. Ok? Let's move ahead. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research ICR and Agriculture Department Ministry of Fisheries, Agriculture and Blue Economy Both of them from the Republic of Seychelles MOU signed. Just have to be careful. What about the ICR and what about the Seychelles? There is the Ministry of Fisheries. of Seychelles What is the Highest Sell In Award? which gave I went to Modi ji. So what is the order of the blue? I had done it. Tell me quickly. Blue what's the name was complete in which the Seychelles and the Republic of The spelling itself was wrong. Türkiye has The 2026 NATO summit is held in Ankara. And Türkiye itself will host the 2026 event. Cop number which is your conference of party UF Triple C's No. 31. host this Will do. Where will it be? This will take place in Türkiye. Ok? The one from 30 was in Belém, Brazil. Had happened. 32 Wali A Dees who is Baba It will be there in Ethiopia. Ok? So You have to keep this in mind. Ok? Seychelles Yes Blue Horizon Blue Eyes. Nice Blue Harries Are. Absolutely. India becomes a party too The WTO Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies by depositing its Instrument of Acceptance. Ok? Bus Take care. WTO Agreement of Ah India Party Ban on Fisheries Subsidies Has gone. Indonesia Sign a Contract. This is important. Indonesia signed Kiya Contract and Agreement to Acquire BrahMos supersonic cruise missile Indonesia will acquire it. And we are Also in talk with UAE. India to UAE Brahmos and our Akash Arrow missile Our defense system is that of India and UAE. We are talking together. Negotiations underway Have been. Deal Involves Two Missile Batteries Valued at roughly 630 million along side Corporation for Astra MK1 Air to Air Missiles. If we talk about Astra MK1 Astra, which is Mark One, is a bi-ram that Is beyond visual range air to air missile. The pilots here can't see. are beyond visual range and air to air mark She does. Ok? This is primarily by the DRDO and manufactured by the Bharat Dynamics Limited BDL. Ok? The President of Ukraine who is approved Serhiy Koretsky as the country's new prime minister Minister. So he became the new Prime Minister of the UK. Are. Don't think Zaleski is gone. Zansky is the president there. He still Yes, Zansky. Ok? Prime Minister of That is what is being talked about here. Serhiy Koretsky Are made. Ok? Senegalese President Basiro Has Been Elected as the New Chairman of ECOWAS that is Economic Community of West African States. Who? Basiro. Is it okay? Remember it by saying F. F Kanishka Narayan is from Muzaffarpur, Bihar. Are born. Ok? Kanishka Narayan. UK that of artificial intelligence This is the ministry that was created for the first time. Is. So Kanishka became the first minister before him. Narayan. France Becomes First European Union Country to Ban Social Media for Children Below 15 years. Children below 15 years of age France has completely What has been banned? Social media. Correct Is? [deep breathing sound] [sudden sharp intake of breath] And the MEA has withdrawn [sound of clearing throat] 2017 notification that imposes certain Conditions on Indian citizens travelling to Yemen. So now the Ministry of External Affairs banned the 2017 He was given a lift by Indians going to Yemen. I have done it now. Ok? Next is N Indian delegation visited Kyrgyzstan. Can you quickly tell me the capital of Kyrgyzstan? From. For the Inauguration of the International Center For Civilization Studies Manas and Mahabharata. Ok? International Center for Civilization Studies Manas and Mahabharata. At their inauguration Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, is located here. Have gone to. Ok? [nasal sound] Switzerland hold kare kare. will host Where is the Global AI Summit? in Geneva There will be a Global AI Summit. Ok? This meditation Will keep it. [deep breathing sound] [sudden sharp intake of breath] which we hosted in the India Pavilion Showcased his Orion. Galgotia's Galgotia humiliated Galgotia as per the rules It's done. Galgotia got it done. Both are there, right? Both happened. Galgotia got himself embarrassed And got it done for India as well. Guys Thomson Assumes Charge as the New FATF President. For 2026 to 28. India Chard the Ninth Session of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Consumer Protection Law and Policy Organized by The Uncut at Geneva, Switzerland. Ok? You can see its details here of Uncut. So India took over the chairmanship. Of the ninth session. Ok? Joe Inter There is a Governmental Group of Experts. Fund Khare, who is the Secretary of the Department of Consumer Affairs Representative India and chaired the Ninth Session of the Inter Governmental Group of Experts. On. Correct Is? It is not that important. It is fine A little bit. Ok. World Bank Board of Executive Directors Approved 890 million dollar financing package for India's National Rooftop Solar Program PM Surya Ghar is a free electricity scheme under which Under this, every household will get 300 units free every month. for the purpose of providing electricity Funding received from the World Bank is 890 million of. Now let us come to the awards section. Ok? Now we will see the awards. Let's get started. The first 72 National Film Awards Let us see. Ok? which is the 72nd National There are film awards. Best Feature Film Got Article 3670. Best Actor in a Leading role Mammoti for the Brahma Yugam. Correct Is? It has a Malayalam feel and Kartik Aaryan Best Actress in a Leading Role for Chandu Champion Leading role: Yami Gautam for Article 370 Best Actor in a Leading or Supporting Role Sanjay Mishra for Bhakshak Best Actress in a Leading Role Supporting role Sachnamidas For Maharaja and Rupashree Vargadi for Mithya Best Debut Film of a Director Randeep Hooda has got it. Ok? The movie he made on Swatantra Veer Savarkar Has made the best debut film of a The director has received it. Ok? Veer Savarkar So you do anything that means ruling If you make the party happy, you will get an award. will get. It is not that this is the current It is the government. Any government may come tomorrow Suppose Congress will come, then even before It was Congress which made the government happy. Will do. That's a different matter, yes, that means There would have been some change from government to government. Is. There are some governments which mean very much supports that If you make it in our favor. Ok? and this It has been going on since before. Ok? Indira It is from Gandhi's time, right? So you don't do this Imagine that I am against some party. I am saying no. I am neutral. Ok? I am neutral. This balances me Rajiv would have had to do it. Otherwise, to judge There are a lot of people sitting for it. Ok? Best Like I am one of you. Ok? For him I am also a bit abusive. I gave him something like that It won't hurt as much as it hurts him It will happen that this will support my party. Doesn't do. This is not from my tribe. Isn't it? Best Non Feature Film Bhangar. Correct Is? Bhangar and Best Documentary Ramnami and Best Debut Film of a Director Non-feature film, this was a feature film. These Raviraj Murmu has got it. Ok? Department of Jo Water Resources River Development and Ganga regeneration is under the Ministry of Jal Shakti Has taken the Seventh National Water Awards. So If we talk about the best state then it is fine The award categories are Best State, Best District, Best Urban Local Body, Best Implemented Project in the Water Sector and BEST Industry. Ok? So these are the categories under which the awards are given. are given. 70 awards have been given. So We don't need to remember that at all. Which awards are there? Ok? So you You can skip this. National National [sound of clearing throat] Awards for E Governance NAAC 2026 IT Recognize 17 Projects and Initiatives Across Seven Award categories with 10 Gold Awards, Six Silver Awards and One Zari Award announced by the Government of India. Ok? Where did it happen? So the national The conference on e-governance is being held in Jaipur. It was conducted in Rajasthan and You can see the categories of Gold Winners here. Can. No need to remember. There are many. International Olympiad which 2026 was India did something quite remarkable in this The performance is shown. Ok? So 56 International Physics Olympiad, 58th There was chemistry. Then there was 37 Biology and 67 Was a Maths Olympiad. Ok? In this How many and what gold medals have you won? Who won is not important. Ok? And by the way It's not very important, really. Should I tell you? Ok? that Physics Olympiad How many medals did you get? Five gold medals out Of five participant India Rank Joint. First four gold medals out of four Participant India Recorded Its Best Performance Finish Joint First One Gold and three silver every Indian Participant won a medal. So, that much It is not important. Just take a look. Ok? This is important Lokmanya Tilak National Award for someone who has done a lot for the country He did well, he was given this award. goes. So this is our NSA right now. Yes Doval ji, he has met him. Musical drama Academy Recognized Haveli Music by Selecting Ahmedabad Scholar Acharya Shri Ranchod Ranchhod Lal Ji Goswami for the Ustad Received Bismillah Khan Youth Award. Whom? Ranchod the Ranchod Lal ji. Ok? To Ranchhod Lal Ji Goswami. This is very important. Very much. Joe Poet, Poet and Lyricist from Tamil Nadu Varamutu has been awarded the 60th Jnanpith. The award has been given. Jnanpith Award India is the highest literary award of the total In how many languages ​​is it available? just I will tell you. Ok? Second Highest Ah What is the literary award? So you know that It should be your Sangeet Natak Academy There is an award. And how many languages ​​are there in total? Are there? So there are total 23 languages. Firstly, there are 22 languages ​​in the Eighth Schedule. and apart from this the English language In that too. Ok? Let's talk again if Whose do you do? Then we can talk now She is from the sports section. So first of all The most important thing is the FIFA World Cup. FIFA Men's World Cup in 2026. Three Happened in countries. In the US, in Canada, in Mexico. There were 16 cities that Hosted. There were three countries. There were 16 cities. That For the first time, three nations jointly hosted it. Have done. Do you know? next time too We Next time too, only three nations will host it. There are. Which were those 30 three nations? Please tell me. Canada had debuted as an The official World Cup is hosted by its host nation. He had not done it before. Attention Where will the one from 2030 be? Portugal. Morocco, an African country, and Spain Who has won this year's FIFA World Cup. So it will happen in these three countries. Team 48 was this Last time it was 32. Each T in 12 groups 12 Groups of Four Teams Each. There were 12 groups. Four teams in each group. 104 matches Had played. Total was the mascot team this time. From Canada was Maple the Moose. was from Mexico Zayu was the Jaguar and USA clutch was the ball It was Deagle. Ok? And we'll talk about the winner. Spain. Spenceman has won the FIFA World Cup Cup Once Before 2010. First win in 2010 Have already done. So he has won for the second time. So Please take care. Ok? And the runner up in this was Argentina. Ok? Argentina won the 2022 one. previous Argentina had won the match. And this time Was runner up. Cape Verde Second Smallest Country after Iceland has participated till Had done. Jordan Uzbekistan He made his debut for the first time. Correct Is? Brazil has won the most FIFA titles I have won five times. 1958, 62, 70, 94, He has not won any title since 2002. So whatever this is like, our Indian is the most Successful Hockey Team Throughout the Olympics It is from India. Ok? But as much as these This is our badge of success. There were old players, they have given Us. Ok? From 1928 to 1956 Won six consecutive gold medals. So this is his Everything that we have today has been given to us somewhere or the other. Sitting on top. in the same way as What it used to be like for Brazil at that time Pay Ah, what was his name? Pele is very strong Pele was the footballer of his time. Ok? So he had Major Dhyanchand like us. For example, in Indian hockey, Brazil has For example, there was Pele in football. Germany and Italy have won four and Argentina has won three, 1978, In 86 and 2022. Talk about awards The Golden Ball has been awarded to the player who Of Spain. To whom is this given? Best Who is a player. Not that the one who who has scored the most goals It is available. No, he gets the Golden Boot. Whoever scores the most goals. Most Number of goals. Ok? So most number of Goals that are Kylian Mbappe are France from they received they received this and golden The glove that the goalkeeper gets is from the United Simon has got it. Can someone tell me what the Greek Simon is a footballer from which country? What Is he the defender of the country? So he is from Spain. Ok? who from Argentina Also very strong perf means he is a defender. Correct? He performed very well as a goalkeeper Had done. If you've seen ah. Isn't it? He had saved many and many He used to give a lot of reactions, that best young man Player who is Pau Cubasi Ok Come on, Neymar has announced that he He retired completely Le Li is a Brazilian international footballer. I tried, I tried, now it's over, meaning I tried, I tried, but I won. Brazil never got its World Cup He won the previous one in 2002 while living in Well, since they've been playing Brazil has not won any World Cup. Junior Okay PV Sindhu here History has been created by winning the Japan Open She has become the first Indian to Reigning World Champion Akane Yamagachi hara hai and she became the first ever Indian Player to Win a Title at the Japan Open Congratulations to P Sindhu ji and Again Historic Milestone Achievement by R Women are doing everything in sports. Hey boys, I don't know what they are doing. are you blowing stuff I mean Punjab is blowing the money And you know how much drugs and so on It's going on. Isn't it? and Punjab and Haryana Jeans are meant to be very strong for athletes. If we look at it sports wise, it is the same It doesn't matter. as in Kals' Women Bronze medal in discus throw also found. I think I can't remember the name. Is. I think both of them were from Haryana. And one person came in third bronze and one in fourth I came to Ok? So perform quite well Our girls have been women Okay, I just teach the girl [laughs]. That was right, we You are right, come on brother, Indian women Cricket Team Created History at Lord's by beating England by 270 runs in the first In the first ever women's test at the Women's Venue. Ok? So at Lord's It happened in England and England only 270 runs lost. Yastika Bhatia is the first woman Bunty, who scored a Test century at Lord's In the stadium. She is Yastika Bhatia and Kranti God has taken five wickets. Again Yastika Kranti name will be remembered. Remember the Name The Commonwealth Games 2026 which will be held on 23 You have been inducted since July and August 2nd till Will go. That means we will continue till tomorrow and before It was to be in Australia. Ok? It was supposed to happen in Australia but could not. [sound of deep breathing] in Australia In Victoria. Glasgow, Scotland He said no problem, we will get it done. Ok? So Then it was done. Ok? And but all There were no sports this time. Ok? Number There were very few off sports this time. 16 sports. Ok? Only 16 sports are being played this time Meaning they were included. Ok? 16 Sports and the mascot is Pinni. Glass vegan that is unicorn Finney. Ok? Where will the next one be? The one of 2030. Ahmedabad. It will be in Ahmedabad. Ok? Ahmedabad. Ok. Ok. 2026 Under 20 Asian Wrestling Championship. It will be in Thailand. China ranked first found. India got the second rank. India Won 20 medals. In the wrestling championship. Four Gold, seven Silver and nine Branch. Under 20th Asian Wrestling Championship. Ok? I had a drink today. This has been happening a lot since then. Ok? The name of the drink was quite obscene. So I tell I can't. Ok? If someone drank If it happens then he will know. Dash on the Beach. Ok? I can't fill that dash. Telangana will host the 8th Khelo India Youth Games 2026 in November. Ok? What will Telangana do to this? Host will host the eighth Khelo India Youth Games Him in November. Ok? Khelo India University Games and Khelo India Winter Games were introduced in 2020. play India Para Games to be held from 2023 Started. You should know this thing. Where did the Tribal Games take place recently? Why? Tribal Games Fantastic. Bro Code Meaning tell me quickly Khelo India Tribal Where were the games held recently and Khelo India Where were the University Games held? So The university ones were in Rajasthan. And where did the tribal people take place? It happened in Chhattisgarh. you should know Needed We are located in Raipur, Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh. And it happened in three cities of Surguja. Correct Is? So tribals happened in Chhattisgarh Games are still the same as before and university games Where did you go? in Rajasthan and Which university topped? Why? Which university topped this? Did you do it? Which university topped? So We are not the PDF of the class with space, sir. Got it yet. Haven't you had it yet? In that? Why? Haven't you read it yet? What does the app say? [sound of clearing throat] Come on, Vietnam will host the pickup ball World Cup 2026 from 30th August to 6th September Pickup Ball Combines Elements of Tennis, Badminton and Table Tennis It combines and Vietnam Okay, and tell me what our 39 When will the National Games take place? In 2027 Will be. There will be no National Games in 2026. Yes this time. So starting in 2027 And he will be in Meghalaya. So Vietnam It will host. Take care Pickable World Cup vs Rathnavel from Tamil Nadu becomes India's 99th Chess Grand Master. 99 Chase He has become a Grand Master. Ok? VS Ratnavel. Ok? From Tamil Nadu. Indian Grand Master Rohit Krishna wins gold. Raja Ritwik Tech Silver at Menaris International Chess Championship (which also took place in France) is in. Ok? Rohit Krishna gets gold And Raja Ritwik got silver. Where will the 2026 E-Sports World Cup be held? will be? In Paris France. World War II 2026 Who has won? Variant. By Janick Sinner. By defeating who has defeated? Alexander To Zebrev. And Linda won the women's singles. Noskova from Church Republic. Whom Has he defeated you? Why? Linda Noska Who has defeated whom? New Delhi will host has been 2 Commonwealth Table Tennis Championship. it Don't relate it to the Commonwealth Games. Commonwealth 2017 Commonwealth Table Tennis Championships This has nothing to do with games. Have to be careful. Ok? And whom did they Is it defeated? Lindasco even defended his own country. Muchova has been defeated. Who defeated whom? Muchova To. Of our own country, that is, of the Judge Republic She was also there. Ok? Muchova. Ok. Let's move on. Let's see next. ICC Women T20 World Cup Australia Has won. Won for the seventh time. Player of the Series Bethany has been from Australia. And Who have you defeated? To England. Ok? So Beth Mooney England will host Australia. England Will Host Australia in the First Ever. England will host Australia in the First Ever Mixed Disability. Ashes ok Ashes cricket which will be test series In 2027, the match between England and Australia Whatever happens in India will happen in England, that means That's right, ICC has banned Sourav Ganguly and Kevin Pietersen and Anjum Chopra who were inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame Of Fame, it is included in it. Ok? These three people have now become 125 people. He is in the ICC Hall of Fame. to leander paes The player of the Asian Tennis Federation is ambassador has been appointed who is the governing Asian Tennis Association is the governing body for tennis in Asia. Tennis Federation Leander Paes Anahat Singh Again he has created history. World Squash Junior Championships Who did Canada defeat after winning it? Egypt Rukaya Salim has been deported from Egypt for the last 16 times. He was going to win this but Anahat Singh He said, how do you wait like this, it's okay. He is a 16 year old Egyptian boy who is wet I broke it. wet means hey he There is a drought of 16 years or for 16 years. No medals were coming. won again 16 years of drought. So they were going to live Now they have dried up. Meaning 16 year old soo wet It's done for them. Ok? Dried up 16 years old Wet. Squash is said to make its Olympic debut Debut. So he is also going to make his Olympic debut. Is. T20 Our 2020 is ours, cricket's year That format will also be introduced. So it means There is a chance that next time we will do much better. I wish I could get a lot of gold medals. Ok? Well, further Let's grow. Indian shooter Esha Singh Vaughan Gold medal. So it is that brother is like an orphan It is a lion. Okay, right? Seeing me this, he It is understandable that brother, if children If passion is followed from childhood So can excel quite a lot. That's enough Excel can do it. Ok? and as if He excelled in many rooms. But all these things are for rich people. It looks a little more beautiful for me. our Like for lower middle class poor people It does not happen. This is the reality. Ok? Let us get a job first. a little food and drink Lets do it. We see this. Isn't it? We Where should I practice questions? Let us go. So Indian shooter Isha Singh won the gold. Manu Bhaker won the bronze medal. is in the The 25 meter pistol event was held in ISSF World Cup 2026 by Londo Norris The Hungarian Grand Prix is ​​the one he won. Taking the Checkered Flag Ahead of Max Waston and Kimi Anton Leary are in now. ok in appointment quickly Let's see the appointment ok RBI has Sir, you can still take classes. What Why do you just look at Sir, yours is working. The class is still going on. Will have to come. You are great. I want to study maths from you very comfortably. come I will have to, brother. 11:00 am to 8:00 pm Up to 9 hours continuously. Remarkable. RBI has approved Ravi Shankar As its new executive director. Correct Is? Ravi Shankar has been appointed as the new Executive Director. take care RBI. The Government Gave a One Year Extension to Foreign Secretary Vikram Mistry sorry Mistry, say Mistry You know the Foreign Secretary is there when After this Pahalgam attack of yours, We had counter attacks, okay? Operation Sindoor was going on at that time He used to do the same press briefings, then later There were attacks on him as well as personal attacks. You know he was Vikram Mishra. f has been extended for one more year Anurag Jain appointed as the new CEO of Nidhi Chhabbar was made but he was removed Now Anurag Jain has been made Pehle Toh Baby V R Subramaniam was there. Then came Nidhi Chhabbar. Then now Water Nidhi Chhabbar will not last long. Didn't stop. And Anurag Jain has just been appointed as the new CEO Was made. You will keep this thing in mind. And Who is the Vice Chairman of NITI Aayog? [nasal sound] Why? Vice Chairman of NITI Aayog. The Chairman is our Prime Minister. So Ashok Kumar is the one who is Lahari. Correct Is? Let RBI approve NS Vishwanathan's reappointment as not accessible That's very important. Just look a little bit more It is not important. Ok? Vishwanathan Anand this isnt over as the toke over as the Interim President of the Zofidia that is International Chess Federation Interim As President, he held office Vishwanathan Anand ji has assumed this. Prahlad Joshi becomes the new Education Minister Are. So you must know this. Its Which ministries did he hold earlier? You can see it here. Ministry of There have been consumer affairs. M Ministry of New and Renewable Energy Have lived. And now they have to pay additional charges. Has been given. Ok? Ministry of Education Ka After Dharmendra Pradhan Resignation. And who has just been appointed secretary? Are? Naresh Pal Gangwar ji has been appointed. Correct Is? Higher Education Secretary. Ok? Naresh Mr Pal Gangwar Ok. Ok? We Ok? and T K Anil Kumar who is Secretary, Department of School Education Made for literacy. Vineet Joshi this Earlier he was Secretary in Education, so he Panchayat Raj was given that son, there is no one Do a little here and there, people will think, oh Look, the government has taken action now. Ok? Keshav Chandra, Secretary, Ministry of mines and this is already in the governments Even if it were, it would not be like that. Ok? Ok. We must keep the scales balanced. Chandra Bhushan Kumar Chandrabhushan Kumar Secretary Ministry of Labour and Employment in Appointment made Sushil Kumar Lohani Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry Husbandry and Daring Satyendra Singh has been appointed Secretary of the Department of of Urban Development and Dr. Srinivas Kumar Tummala, whose secretary is he? Belongs to the Ministry of Earth Sciences. Correct Is? So this is most important, Naresh. Pal Gangwar wali and T K Anil Kumar wali and Vineet Joshi who was earlier in Education In the ministry and now in Panchayati Raj Have already done. Ok? Piyush Goyal has been Appointed as the Secretary General of the NHRC. So the National Human Rights Commission Piyush has been made its Secretary General. Goyal. NHRC you should know that it was formed in 1993 It was as a statutory body. Because this Act It was made through. What does anyone say about you? Are? [sound of deep breathing] What do you say? Meaning, any constitution There is no article in . like national There is a commission for SC, Article 338, ST, 338A is backward classes 338B. But It has no effect. It was made in 1993 As a statutory body, retirees are sorry [nasal sound] [sound of deep breathing] Admiral Joe is retired, Admiral C Raghuram was appointed CMD Of Hindustan Shipyard Limited. incomparable Mishra assumed charge as the Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Copper He assumed the role of HCL Limited. Anupam Mishra took charge. Ok? Become MD It belongs to Hindustan Copper Limited. Harjeet Singh Grewal has become the chairman of the National For the Commission for Minorities. Ok? The National Commission for Minorities is a statutory body of the government of India that safeguards and protects the Interest of Minority Communities. it was set up under the National Commission for Minorities Act of 1992 and its head Quarters are in New Delhi. Ok? New Its headquarter is in Delhi. Ok? And You can read some of the appointments here. Just by myself. Ok. Let's come to the defense now. Let's come to the defense. All right. So the Indian Navy has commissioned I have done its sixth project. Ok? Wait a second. So the Indian Navy commissioned the sixth Project Joe 17 Is it A or the 17 alpha indigenous? Telescope Frigate Mahendragiri F38 AT Details of Visakhapatnam Project 17A are Nilgiri class frigates developed here It is being done because the first one was yours NS Nilgiri had Project 17 Alpha and Project 17 is precisely the Alpha Seven chips. There are total four bays to be developed Mezgong Dop Ltd. Okay. One second. Let's IS and three will be developed here by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited. Ok? Four MDLs And will develop three GRSCs. Ok? And If we talk about ships then IAS Nilgiri, Himgiri, Udaygiri, Dunagiri, Taragiri, Vindhyagiri, Mahendragiri these All your mirrors will be developed. MDL Delivered Udayagiri in July 2025 end Mahendragiri Inn April 2026. So keep this thing in mind Is. Ok? Is it clear? Ok. and Dunagiri If we talk about this then this is also news I was. Developed by GRSC. This was done in Kolkata. Isn't it? was included. And This was the fifth Nilgiri class. stealth guided missile frigate What did Modi ji do? This one was inducted into the Indian Navy in this manner IAS Dunagiri IAS on 21 June 2026 Researcher and IAS forward, do you know IS? Last month we read this news IAS Dunagiri IAS Researcher And yours IAS Agra is fine, induct these three Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Port was established More Gardens in Kolkata, West Bengal Reach Ship Builders &amp; Engineers Ltd Developed by DRDO conducted a Successful flight test at Pinaka Long Range Guided Rocket at the Integrated Test Range at the Chandipur. Ok? So the Rocket Was tested for a user-defined minimum Range of 60 km Unlikely Older Unguided Pinaka Rockets LRGR is a guided Weapon. So It Can Strike Targets More Accurately over much larger ranges. So DRDO Has successfully conducted flight test range. Whose? Pinaka Long Range Gain Rocket ITR at Chandipur. Indian Navy Commissioned Malvan was commissioned. The Second of the Mahe Class Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Watercraft. Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Where is the watercraft IAS Malwan built? to be done? in Cochin Shipyard Limited and The two classes are Arnala class and Mahe Class You Can Watch Arnala Class Build by GRS. and Mahe class If we talk about Cochin Shipyard Ltd. and this is your IAS Malwan Belongs to the Mahé class antisubmarine Warfare Shallow Watercraft. The Indian Navy Hosted the Operation Southern Readiness 262 OK at the Southern Naval Command in Kochi Okay, so this is something you need to keep in mind. Southern Redness 262 He holds this someone. Tray This is not a classic war game It is training centric, this is fine and also Many countries participated in it Nearly 40 nations have said where Southern Indian Air Force at Naval Command Kochi has commissioned its participation in the Royal Australian Air Force Premier Multinational Air Combat Exercise Joe Pitt It is black. Pitch Black Exercise Joe is where Where was it conducted? Darwin July 20 to August 7 in Australia In between. And where else? Australia. It's a simple thing. And Indian in this The Air Force has participated. This too It is a multinational exercise. That means a lot of Countries participate in it. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh flagged in a Circumambulation of the sea. The First Ever Try Services All Women Circumnavigation Sailing Expedition. Ok? So flagged is the sea To pradakshina. Now the Indian Army Sailing Vessel. Ok? Triveni Nine Women Officer of the three services return to Mumbai after Successfully completing the 314-day journey After completing it, this is your Triveni. Triveni Vasal is one of the nine women officers in Yes, she has returned. Ok? So this is your attention Have to keep it. Ok? circumambulation of the sea DRDO conducts maiden flight test of Kusha Long Range Surface to Air Missile from APJ Abdul Kalam Island of the Coast of Osa. Ok? This long range from you He will directly ask what is Kusha? So it Is long range surface to air missile. So Made in flight, that is, the first flight traced And this was your success. The US has Editions hosted [sound of clearing throat] is the rim of Pacific that is remade in 2026 in Hawaii. Correct Is? It is the world's largest international It is a maritime exercise. Ok? Worlds This is the largest. And that has been the theme of 26 She has been Partners Integrated and Prepared. Ok? India has developed its First Indigenous Expendable Turbojet Engine in the 350 kg thrust class. Who? Have you developed it? DRDO's gas turbine There is a research establishment, he said. Ok? Expendable turbojet engine. Indian Army Is raising specialized falcon battalion. Whom To manage? which are UAVs, There are drones to manage them. To Baaz Battalion, that is, especially to them In UAEs, in UAVs, that is, in drones The train will be done. Commonwealth War Graves Commission Recognized 9909 Previously Uncommissioned British Indian Army servicemen From World War One. Ok? So again He has got recognition in a way. CSIR's National Aerospace Laboratories have in bore completed the design Face of Sarus Mark Two. Who? CSIR's The National Aerospace Laboratory. Now Let's see some science and tech news. Are. So the sky route, the aerospace Sky Route Aerospace Pvt. Ltd. Is. This is our space agency. of India It is the first private space agency. He mission Under arrival [sound of clearing throat] Successfully Vikram Van from Sriharikota Has been launched. Ok? Modi ji again Both the founders of Sky Route also met It is from them. The Milestone Mission Places Six Payloads into a 450 km In low Earth orbit. Ok? Ok? Vikram One is India's First Privately Developed Orbital Class Launch Vehicle Built by Sky Route Aerospace. You should know this. DRDO has launched indigenous i.e. indigenous underwater fiber optic Sensing system. Underwater fiber optic The sensing system has been developed here by DRDO. A complete trap has been laid. to establish a sea Bed Surveillance Network in the Indian Ocean. So in the Indian Ocean properly So that surveillance can be done. Therefore, DRDO It has been developed here. ISRO conducted the first ground test of the Solid Motor for the Sub-Orbital Launch Vehicle for Experiment Solve at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota. Ok? So ISRO conducted the first ground Test of the solid motor. Ok? ISRO conducted a critical integrated main Parachute Air Drop Test I Mat 05 for the Gaganyaan Missions at the Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment Drop Zone In Shivpur, Madhya Pradesh. So Shivpur Madhya It has been conducted in the state. Correct Is? Aerial Delivery Research Development Gun missions for the establishment that you I know it will most probably go in 2028. Correct Is? And sent three astronauts under him Will go into space through us. So his So when he comes back he will be there for the same Drop test which is successfully shopper Conducted in Madhya Pradesh. Space SpaceX owned by Elon Musk Launched Bor the World's First Commercially Build Nuclear Power Satellite Nuclear power satellite. commercially Build Nuclear Power Satellite Around the World to abort a Falcon or rocket during the Transporter 17 Mission. So Falcon Nine It is launched from a rocket which is your It is a reusable vehicle. Indian Origin NASA Astronaut Anil Menon This is Soyuz's MS 29 spacecraft. International Space Station I do you know when how many eight months are going on a research mission to International Space Station: What you need to know Should when was it developed in 1998 okay The world of 2026 is artificial Intelligence Conference in Shanghai The Formal Signing by 29 countries to establish the World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation An organization will be formed. 29 countries have I have signed it. Math which is your ministry of Information Technology in collaboration with Drone Federation of India Latch Second Edition of the National Innovation Challenge. that much It is not important. Ok? You can do the dodge ones yourself. Correct Is? Important days and their themes here It is written. Now come Books and Authors Pay. So the first book is our Chief Our Justice was Justice Gavai. [deep breathing sound] [sudden sharp intake of breath] So Vice President CP Radhakrishnan from 49 The book of the Chief Justice has been released. The Voice of Justice Justice Gwai Speaks. Ok? Only one book is important. The rest come They are on government schemes. Ok? Our I think this last section will be government Schemes. Ok? We [nasal sound] There is such a community in Manipur also. Let us go Hum Chalo To The Union Cabinet Has Approved The Mobile Phone Manufacturing Scheme with a Budgetary outlay of this much ₹62,500 crore. So much Mobile Phones with Budget Outlay Manufacturing Scheme which is Union The cabinet has given its approval. of the scheme The tenure will be 5 years. From 2026 to 27 It will happen by 203031. Ok? What is M? Indian brands to achieve technological Sovanity. He should achieve it. Ok? Union Cabinet has approved the Semicon 2.0 for The Development of India Semiconductor Design and manufacturing ecosystem with a total Budget outlay of this much. Ok? SEMICON 2.0 has been approved. develop semiconductors To do this, the semiconductor industry To develop. The Union Cabinet has approved India Industrial development plan chemicals and grand. Chemicals Scheme for Establishing Three Dedicated chemical parks in the country. Ok? Three dedicated chemical parks developed will be done under that. Under whom? gorgeous Under the Chemicals Scheme. Ok? The Scheme Was Announced in the budget for 2026-27 Was done. Budget outlet worth around Rs 330 crore Is. And the scheme is for 5 years It will work. From 2627 to 3031. digital India Program Completed 11 Years on 1 July 2026. Ok? Launched on 15 May 2015 Was. Ministry flows. Ok? This is something And you can see the initiatives. advanced Bharat Ji Ram Ji from 1 July 2026 this It has been enforced. It has been implemented. Correct Is? When Bibi Ji Ram Ji Act came, yours Well then? Developed India Guarantee for Employment and livelihood mission under it by July 1, 2026 Your lunch has already started. In which 100 means 25 days guaranteed You will get employment. unskilled labor Unskilled employment. Ok? First Ma'am, under NREGA, there were 100 It was day employment. you should know You should know that this was launched in 2005. It was NREGA and in 2009 it became MG NREGA And now he has brought Lord Ram in his place. Has gone. Ok? Look at the rest of this Will take. This is part of static. From here This also becomes a question. National SC ST The Hub scheme was launched in 2016. Had gone. He has completed 10 years. and this This is a scheme of the Ministry of MSME. Correct Is? Atal Vayo Abhudaya Yojana. Ok? about this You should also know a little bit about Which is its ministry? Social Justice and empowerment. Well, who is its minister? Are? Why? Who is its minister? Social Of Justice and Empowerment. So our Ramdas Athawale ji is the one who, in some strange way Let's say. You must have heard Abhijeet. Abhijeet Deepak's is also in a strange way right now. At least something was addressed. He came from America by doing something like this His name is secretly from America. Abhijeet Deepak Well then Central Sector Scheme is this for senior citizens ok and it was earlier known as National Action Plan for Senior Citizens and Was Revised and Renamed This was done in 2021. 5 years have passed This. PM Modi launches The Next Face of Udan and inaugurated the new terminal Building at the Jodhpur Airport. Ok? So fly away from the city. that I told you first It was only told that it was launched in 2016 and Its I innovated the new fuzz. The Cabinet Approved on 25th March 26 for the financial year 2026 to 27 to Fiscal Year 35 to 36 with a Total outlay of Rs 2840 crore. Ok? coming now It is on government bills. One is FCRA. The bill was in the news a lot. Ok? Foreign Contribution Regulation Act which does Used to be? Amending the old Act. The Act came into force in 1976. Whose For? The Original Legislation Enacted Tonitor and regulate the acceptance and Utilization of foreign contribution of Individual Association Companies. So any Foreign Individual Association or Company In India, if any NGO etc. If he is giving donation then to regulate it This Act was brought for this. in 2010 It replaced the 1976 legislation. Was. Ok? Some amendments have been made and now Key amendments that have been proposed. Like for example, the first punishment in this There was a provision for it to be 5 years old. It has been reduced to one year. And A lot of changes have been made here. Successive Legislative Changes Introduced Title Compliance Norms Mandatory Basis Requirements for Office Bearers Restrictions on Administrative Expenses and the Prohibition of Transferring foreign funds to other entities. So a lot of changes have been made since 2000 Or Act 26 has just come. Ok? and one more So that is the biggest change. Ok? Who There is an amendment bill of 2026 that Amit Shah says. Ok? that if this Is it implemented, right? So whatever this Rights etc. are being done in Manipur etc. All these will be closed because they need foreign Funding is available. Ok? So foreign funding This will stop it. And I will take care what has been done in this and not valuation if any Whatever penalty will be imposed, that will be the impairment. The penalty will be reduced from 5 years It has been extended to one year. it has been reduced The time period of impression. your gift Prevention of Unfair Public Examinations Means Amendment Bill of 2026. Correct Is? it seeks to amend the public Examination Prevention of Unfair Means Act of 2024. Ok? The Act Aims To Prevent Unfair Means in Public Examinations conducted by specified Public Examination Authorities. These include What? UPSC, SSC, Railways Recruitment Board which is RRB your railway He conducts the exam. Institute of Banking Personnel Selection, NTA, Ministries of the Central Government and Their attached offices, other authorities Notified by the Central Government. So, The examinations conducted by them Let's go. Ok? This is for all those exams. Your public examinations will be applicable Prevention of Unfair Means Act of 2024. Now what is there in this Act? What was it? 2024 I came, you know that. And now this What is proposed in the amendment bill? Has been done? So, this protest of yours If it has happened then after the protest many Changes are proposed here. As that if use of unfair means is made Impression by any person There will be impression. Earlier it was 3 and 5 years And fine up to 10 lakhs [sound of clearing throat]. what are you doing now given? Imprisonment between 5 and 10 Years. You will get 5 to 10 years of impression and Fine up to Rs 50 lakh. Unfair Means By A service provider fine up to ₹1 crore. 1 Fine up to crores. Or if it's here If you do this bill, you will face a fine of up to Rs 5 crore. Up to 1 crore here and 5 crore here Up to. Ok? It has just been extended. Persons in charge of service provider if If we talk then those who are in charge of the service Provider's impression between three And 10 years and a fine of ₹1 crore. Now! Minimum imprisonment of 5 years and fine of ₹5 A tax of crores has been imposed. But not the same If you get caught, you will not get a clean chit. Then how will it work? It is organized crime If the impression was earlier than 5 to 10 years Between and find not less than a crore. What's up now? Minimal impairment was done 7 years of imprisonment and the minimum fine imposed He will definitely be fined up to Rs 10 crore. Will go. Ok? PM Modi announced a high Power Task Force Led by Nandan Nilkani to Bring the Reforms in the Examination System. Ok Is it clear? So this has to be kept in mind. and this How many members are there in it? It is not written Is. There are six members. Nandan Nilekani has been Interested by the Center for Several Initiatives. So you can see it here Which initiatives do they care about? Has been done before. The one that is UIDI They have already taken the lead. cofounder of Infosys These are they. Ok? So this has to be kept in mind. Their entire committee has six members. There are residents. Ok? Six members of these There are residents. Which members are these? So, one has been the former chief of ISRO. Our S Somnath of IIT Madras who Priyanka Gandhi had made fun of it A little talk about cow urine in Parliament K.V. Kamakoti Tapan Deka who is in the IB Director is from former and education Former Education Secretary Anil Anita Karwal and Amrita Lal Meena Okay I will write I am giving you one here, our Somnath ji Yes S Somnath ok and tapan deka Former Director of IB Kamakoti V Kamakoti Anita Karwal, Director of IIT Madras Ok Anita Karwal and Amrit Lal Mee Okay Amrit Lal, I'm okay, let's come now. The last section is Pay and that is Reports and Rankings. So the Economist Intelligence which The unit is EIU. It has global liveability Index has been released for 2026 which Evaluates 173 Cities World Wide Across 30 Indicators. Ok? So the city which is at number one in this That's your Copenhagen. and Indian If we talk about the ranking of cities, then New Delhi at 120th position, Mumbai at 121st position Chennai is at 123rd position and Bor is at 127th position. The number is here. Ok? then either Even Indian cities did not make it to the top 100. I have found it. Top Ah First Number Pe Rahi Hai Copenhagen, Denmark. Ok? Economist The Intelligence Unit releases this To the Global Liveability Index. Indian i Performance and Status India Achieved Its Higher Highest Ever Position Ranking 94 Out of 169 countries with an overall score of 68.3 was out of 100. Okay? So this is for you Have to be careful. India's performance It has been quite good at this. Highest Ever Position ranking 94 out of 169 countries. The score was 68.33. NITI Aayog has released the report titled Strategic Road Map for Making Ayeda Global. So just keep this in mind. Road Map proposes 500 crores Bioeconomic Growth Fund for the Year 2026 to 35 For the period of . How much fund is this proposal? He does it, he suggests it, keep that in mind Is. Ok? What was the title? Strategic Road Map for Making Ayeda Global. Ok? This one report was released. A study Report on low participation in Gram Sabha Across States and UTs. that the village council There is less participation of people in it. Road Map for Building India as a Leading Bioeconomic Power House by 2035. NITI Aayog released a report on Investment Friendliness Index. Correct Is? In the Investment Friendliness Index A report was released by NITI Aayog Is. Announced in the Union Budget of 2026. If we talk about the performance category in this If you do, you will be a top performer, a front runner, Emerging Performer and Aspiring State Key Here are the categories. in which If we talk about overall performer, top overall Performers are from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Osa. Last Gujarat ranks first in the state rankings. Used to be. Then Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. So You have to keep this in mind. Joe's Last City Gujarat was at the first position in your category. Is. Then Maharashtra and then Tamil Nadu. Ok? and in hilly and north eastern states Uttarakhand is on the first position. Union Minister of Education releases the Report on Performance Grading Index 2.0 for States and UTs and Performance Grading Index for Districts for 2526. 1000 in PGI States and UTs Points across 70 indicators are listed here Have gone. It's not that important Framework. Ok? I will take care of you. Ministry of Education performance Redding Index Release 2.0 Union Minister of Ministry of Education Release a Report on Unified District Information System for Education Plus UDA Plus Your Udice Plus 2025 26 on School Education In India. If we talk about gross in this Enrollment ratio in the middle category and 89.6 in the secondary category in 2025-26 has been in the middle category and secondary 71.7 in the category The Union Ministry of Education released the Reports of the All India Survey on a Higher Education Ash for the year 2022 to 23 and 232 Gross Enrolment Ratio Gross Enrolment Ratio is computed as a ratio of Student Enrolled Enrollment to Total Population in the age group of 18 to 23 Years. How many children are enrolled and What is the population between 18 and 23 years? According to the 2011 census. So it is 29.5 Is. Ok? In 202-23 and in 2023 it It has increased to 30. Female Joe Gross The enrollment ratio has increased from 31.2, sorry. 31 has increased from 30.2 to 31.2. Tamil Nadu is ranked first for Higher Education Gross Enrolment Ratio Tamil Nadu recording 52.3% in 2023-24 It has been at number one. Ok? Let us go. [sound of deep breathing] Okay. OK the ratio Gross Enrolment Ratio to Male to Female Is computed as the Gender Parity Index which measures the relative access to education of males and females and JPI for 2023-24 was 1.08 this report wali jo Our video will come tomorrow. Tomorrow It will be telecast on this channel at 10:00 am. So You will see it is completely covered there. Details there. GPI stands for That it gives the ratio of female to male. So If the ratio of females to males is 1.08 then Gross enrollment of women The ratio is higher as compared to male. Ok? It's obvious. The Ministry of Cole Released RO. India's First Report On Scientific Mind Closure and Repurposing Practices. So the Ministry of Coal Release it RO. India Global Passport Ranks at number 125 in the index. Sweden is at number one. Ok? Who has been the publisher? Global Citizen Solutions. Ok? in the Global Passport Index According to Time Out's 2026 survey, the Jaipur ranks sixth among the worlds Happiest Cities Earning the Distinction of Being the only Indian city in the top 10. Correct Is? It is not that important. just a little bit Take care. The Unite Act report that came Under that, FDI in India is more than 44%. has increased to US dollars. 39 billion has passed Is. 39 billion in 2025. UN Releases Its First Scientific Assessment of Artificial Intelligence in July 2026 Under the Title Preliminary Report of the Independence International The Scientific Panel on AI is the first scientific UN released the report of assessment AI Okay and let's see the bitchurries. So Bichuriz I know that the New Zealand actor Sam Neil, he has died. Girish Bhardwaj The Bridge Man of India has died. Who received Padmashree in 2017. Garfield Sobers West Indies Legend In Cricket Great Crickets Greatest All-rounder Dies at 89, He Became the First Cricketer to Hit to Hit Six Sixes in a single over in first-class cricket in 1968 You should know that the cricketer of the The award is given by ICC. The trophy Sir Gair is named after him. Field Sobers Trophy is very important Yes, this is right, this is Sobers' non-field take care okay because of these The trophy for best cricketer is given in the name If yes, then it is correct that he was from West Indies. Former Afghanistan cricketer Shapoor He has died suddenly. very young age He has died in 2017. Someone I think somewhere in the pancreas or liver He had a problem. At a very young age, their Death has occurred. Let's go [sound of clearing throat] So playback singer S Janaki passed away ah In Mysore, Karnataka. Sahitya Akademi Award Winning Tamil Writer Pomani. Ok? Celebrated for his realistic Portrayals Passed Away and Tamil Poet Too Time Sahitya Akademi Award Puvirasu also died. To all The important Garfield is sobbing. This meditation Please keep it. Ok? Ok Is it clear? All right. Thank you everyone. Thank you. How long will you get the bomb shot done? The exam date is Let it come. Let the exam date come brother. then Will get it done. Tell me how to get it done now. Yes. CGL 26 is expected in October. Let's get the PDF of this. Parmar Academy's free content section and Rest of this on Parmar SSC's telegram channel There are batches, the rest you should know now Another batch has been added and that is Repeaters batch of Prashant Sir is still there What do you watch live? Is it still live? Brother, I have to agree have to admit Keep doing it until it is deleted Go sir I have to admit brother, this sir is new. Yes, you know brother, your Prashant brother I would like to request each and everyone of I am asking you to take the test for your batch. I have already done pre videos, is it okay? If it is helpful then you will know about it. will go will go. Ok? Otherwise this is Uday Sir's foundation batch. Uday Sir also has a revision batch. means maths But now it is all around, meaning there will be no shortage. It is not the one. Ok? You will also need to do reasoning I know there are all batches. Ok? Thank you Everyone. Thank you. A How much funding has been received? Funding will have to be checked. let me see for a second What? How much funding has been received so far? There will be a link here. Here is the link. It shows in the link here. this funding How much has happened? Funds are used for Assam relief only and now Till now the collection here is Rs 44,000 and 413 people have donated. Great and we How much will he donate from his side? I will tell you. Ok? Later, first class ends Let it be. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Ok? And this monthly magazine also comes. You should know about current affairs. They You will see it in the course section of Current Affairs Will go. Ok? Monthly Current Affairs Banking OK Thank You